Let's get into some code and
let's see this in action.
So I'm going to hop into the Angular
13 fundamentals repository.
And the one thing that I just,
so you understand where I'm
going with this,
I'm going to jump to the 00 start branch.
And this has some things that have been,
I've just streamlined some stuff,
so we're not starting from zero.
So I'll go git checkout 00-start,
and now I should be able to
hop back into my code here.
And let's just run this so everybody can
see what we're dealing with, so npm start.
And this should spin up here in a second,
wait for it, there we go.
All right, so now what we have is
super basic, there's not a lot here.
More importantly, is if I go to Courses,
you'll see that I have an empty course
list and an empty course detail.
So if we go into the code and
drill down to Src > App > Courses,
we have our CoursesComponent, and
we also have our CoursesComponent class.
So, Let's start to
build this out and
make something functional.
So the idea here is, I want to, first and
foremost, I want to
render a list of courses.
And then I want the ability
to select a course, and
then based on the selected course,
I want to be able to display that.
So let me just write this down here.
So step 1,
we are going to render courses in a list.
Step 2,
we're going to be able to select a course.
Step 3, we're going to be able to
render selected course, right.
So this is the goal that I am
going to endeavor to complete.
So what I'm going to do, because I
think we need more than one course.
I'm gonna go here.
We'll go JavaScript The
HARDEST PARTS EVER!
Learn, Like a pro with will, all right.
So we now have a property with
two course objects in it,
and we're going to render
the courses in a list.
So the first thing that I'm going to do,
and
this is a favorite technique of mine, is,
using the pre tag,
I can put a property and bind to it.
And then using this JSON pipe here,
that if I go back to my application,
what this has done is
it's taken the structure,
and it's just essentially
done JSON stringify and
it's just kind of put it out there.
So this is a really, really fast and
easy way for when you're programming,
and it's just like I just want to see
where I'm at, how things are going.
And so I will, especially on two monitors,
I will use this just to
kinda do spot checks and
make sure that my assumptions are correct.
So, interesting enough,
we talked about the first set of
bindings is string interpolation
using the pre tag which
preserves formatting, and
then this JSON pipe here,
that we're able to see the structure
in fairly high fidelity right here.
So that is just kind of a bit of
a pro tip that I use frequently.
Now what we can do is we can iterate
over this courses collection and
display it as individual item.
So let's go with,
we'll do an unordered list,
and we want to create a list item for
every single course that exist.
So what I can do here is I can,
using ngFor, I can say,
let course of courses and
then I can bind to this particular
instance of whatever iteration is.
Angular does a really good job
of keeping track of what item in
the collection am I binding to.
So in this case, let me just pick this up.
And let me just,
I'll pick up the whole thing, and
this is gonna be humorous,
I think, we'll see what happens.
Instead of courses,
we're going to do course.
Let's go back to our code, and so
now all I've done is I've
moved this into a list item.
And so what we have here,
just to summarize,
is when you have a collection using ngFor,
you can iterate over that.
And you can, then for every iteration,
it pulls an item out
of that collection and
then it allows you to display it.
So what I can do now,
is we do something like course title and
we'll go here, so back into our code.
And so
now you can see it is in a list format.
So what we're doing is we have
the ability to then drill down and
bind to a specific property on this item.
Now, let's think about this,
if we were going to click on this and
we're going to capture this,
what would that look like?
Well, we would use event binding.
So here, click and
we're going to add a, or
define a method here called SelectCourse.
And we're going to pass in the course,
and so
Angular also is keeping track
of when I select course,
what course am I talking about.
And so now I do not believe that I
have a SelectCourse method in here,
so we need to do a couple things.
So the first thing is I'm
going to go selectedCourse,
and we'll just set this to null.
And then what we can do, and
this is actually course, singular.
I'm going to create a selectCourse method
that is going to take a course
property and it's going to,
Assign it to selectedCourse.
Now we'll save this, and
let's go back into our template,
rather into our template here.
And I'm going to take,
I'm gonna do a pre tag and
then let's go ahead and dump,
The selectedCourse out, And
we'll go using the JSON filter.
Let's save this.
And so now you can see that
selectedCourse is null.
But once I select this list item,
you can see here that this
becomes the selected course,
and I'm able to go kind of back and
forth across these.
Now, what I will do,
just to clean this up and
because I don't remember what this
looks like off the top of my head,
let's go to, I'm just jumping into, The,
Source code here and
we are going to do a mat-list.
So I'm just borrowing this from the master
branch, then we'll go back here.
And you'll notice here, I've already, for
the most part, written this,
and so we can get rid of this.
And I'm gonna just comment
this out real quick.
All right, so
just review what I've added, so
I've just pulled this in
off of the main branch.
Is instead of using an unordered list,
and actually,
I need to put this up here,
I put this in the wrong section.
So, here we go.
An unordered list here, let's go ahead and
we're going to use a material list.
So we have a mat-list, mat-list-item, and
let course of courses, and
selectCourse, of course, like a horse.
And now what we're doing is displaying
the title and the description.
And remember when I used
the JSON type here, well,
we have one that's called title case, and
what this will do is it'll
turn it into a title case.
So back to here,
I'm gonna just put my pre tag back,
selectedCourse, won't do JSON.
We'll save this and
let's see how this is looking.
All right, so
now what we have is two items,
but it is in a material list.
So just a quick small
deviation off of this is,
I don't make it a habit
to memorize SDKs or
even really large amounts of syntax.
But if you go to material.angular.io,
and you check on Components,
they've done a really
good job of laying out,
these are the components
that are available.
And so for instance, you can see
the list here, which I'm using.
And right inside of the document here,
you can see kind of
the underpinnings of what I've done.
So if somebody said, hey,
I need you to write a list item, but
you're not allowed to use any pre-existing
code, this is what I would do.
Is I would go to material.angular.io,
and I would copy this.
So this is what I call document
driven development, DDD.
And another pro tip, since I'm here,
that if you click on this out arrow,
that this will open up in StackBlitz.
And you can see the code
running here as well.
So ironically, you'll see that
they also have some squiggly line.
So I think this might be just an Angular
13 thing that they're ironing out.
But if you have a question about a
particular component, how to implement it.
If you're like me,
you're not going to memorize
an entire component development kit.
But what you're going to do is,
I think it's important at least
understand where to find the answers.
So if I wanna do a menu or
a progress bar or whatever,
they've done a really good job of
surfacing working code examples
that you can just copy right
out of their documentation.
So now, same exact thing,
click, click, and we can see it.
So we will extend this just
a little bit further and,
I'm going to add in this or
uncomment out this delete button, and
let's talk about this and
what's happening.
And we will, Kind of step through this,
and there's just kinda one piece
here that I want to call out is, so
what we've added is a delete
button in to the list item.
And so if we look at this just
the way that this is rendering,
so let me add in this first.
So it's looking for deleteCourse.
And so I'm gonna go back here
into my component class,
And we're going to go deleteCourse.
And we're going to take a course ID, and
we're going to just log this out,
DELETE COURSE.
All right, the course, course ID,
and so they should render.
So that's one nice thing is that if it's
looking for something in the template, it
doesn't exist, it's going to call you out,
because better now than in production.
And so here,
if I open up my console that, and
this is probably small.
Let me just make this big, bigger,
you'll notice here that DELETE COURSE 1,
DELETE COURSE 2.
Whereas if I select this, then you're
seeing the selected course over here.
Now, I'm gonna save you a little
bit of heartache and frustration.
And you'll notice here
that on this click event,
I'm calling deleteCourse, but
I also have this
$event.stopImmediatePropagation.
And what this does is that
when I click on the button,
it prevents that event from bubbling and
also selecting the course
that I want to delete.
So if I take that off and
I go back, you'll notice here that
when I select this,
I hit the Select or the Delete button,
but it also selected
the list item that was in.
So essentially, because I clicked
a child component, it bubbled up and
it registered the click event
on the list item as well.
So this is undesirable behavior,
this is obviously not what you want.
And so how you solve that is to keep
your events from bubbling in Angular.
Is that within the click handler itself,
so click,
you're calling the method
on the component, but
then you're also doing $event.
So it's capturing the event that
was triggered, it was just saying,
we're going to stop this immediately.
So stop immediate propagation.
And so we go here,
now we can click this and
it's going to obviously show in
the console that we're doing this.
But from here,
we're still able to select the course.